Overview
Lang Chain's streaming system lets you surface live feedback from agent runs to your application. What's possible with Lang Chain streaming:- Stream agent progress—get state updates after each agent step.
- Stream LLM tokens—stream language model tokens as they're generated.
- Stream thinking / reasoning tokens—surface model reasoning as it's generated.
- Stream custom updates—emit user-defined signals (e.g.,
"Fetched 10/100 records"). - Stream multiple modes—choose from
updates
(agent progress), messages
(LLM tokens + metadata), orcustom
(arbitrary user data).
Supported stream modes
Pass one or more of the following stream modes as a list to thestream
or astream
methods:
| Mode | Description |
updates | Streams state updates after each agent step. If multiple updates are made in the same step (e.g., multiple nodes are run), those updates are streamed separately. |
messages | Streams tuples of (token, metadata) from any graph nodes where an LLM is invoked. |
custom | Streams custom data from inside your graph nodes using the stream writer. |
Agent progress
To stream agent progress, use thestream
or astream
methods with stream_mode="updates". This emits an event after every agent step.
For example, if you have an agent that calls a tool once, you should see the following updates:
- LLM node:
AIMessage
with tool call requests - Tool node:
Tool Message
with execution result - LLM node: Final AI response
Streaming agent progress
Output
LLM tokens
To stream tokens as they are produced by the LLM, usestream_mode="messages". Below you can see the output of the agent streaming tool calls and the final response.
Streaming LLM tokens
Output
Custom updates
To stream updates from tools as they are executed, you can useget_stream_writer
Streaming custom updates
Output
If you add
get_stream_writer
inside your tool, you won't be able to invoke the tool outside of a Lang Graph execution context. Stream multiple modes
You can specify multiple streaming modes by passing stream mode as a list: stream_mode=["updates", "custom"]
Each streamed chunk is a Stream Part
dict with type, and data
keys. Use chunk["type"]
to determine the stream mode and chunk["data"]
to access the payload.
Streaming multiple modes
Output
Common patterns
Below are examples showing common use cases for streaming. Streaming thinking / reasoning tokens
Some models perform internal reasoning before producing a final answer. You can stream these thinking / reasoning tokens as they're generated by filtering standard content blocks for thetype
"reasoning"
Reasoning output must be enabled on the model. See the reasoning section and your provider's integration page for configuration details. To quickly check a model's reasoning support, see models.dev.
stream_mode="messages"
and filter for reasoning content blocks:
Output
thinking
blocks, Open AI reasoning
summaries, etc.) into a standard "reasoning"
content block type via the content_blocks
property.
To stream reasoning tokens directly from a chat model (without an agent), see streaming with chat models.
Streaming tool calls
You may want to stream both:- Partial JSON as tool calls are generated
- The completed, parsed tool calls that are executed
stream_mode="messages"
will stream incremental message chunks generated by all LLM calls in the agent. To access the completed messages with parsed tool calls:
- If those messages are tracked in the state (as in the model node of
create_agent), usestream_mode=["messages", "updates"]
to access completed messages through state updates (demonstrated below). - If those messages are not tracked in the state, use custom updates or aggregate the chunks during the streaming loop (next section).
Refer to the section below on streaming from sub-agents if your agent includes multiple LLMs.
Output
Accessing completed messages
If completed messages are tracked in an agent's state, you can use
stream_mode=["messages", "updates"]
as demonstrated in the Streaming tool calls section to access completed messages during streaming. Output
Streaming with human-in-the-loop
To handle human-in-the-loop interrupts, we build on the above example:- We configure the agent with human-in-the-loop middleware and a checkpointer
- We collect interrupts generated during the
"updates"
stream mode - We respond to those interrupts with a command
Output
Streaming from sub-agents
When there are multiple LLMs at any point in an agent, it's often necessary to disambiguate the source of messages as they are generated. To do this, pass aname
to each agent when creating it. This name is then available in metadata via the lc_agent_name
key when streaming in "messages"
mode.
Below, we update the streaming tool calls example:
- We replace our tool with a
call_weather_agent
tool that invokes an agent internally - We add a
to each agent - We specify
subgraphs=True
when creating the stream - Our stream processing is identical to before, but we add logic to keep track of what agent is active using
create_agent
'sname
parameter
Output
Disable streaming
In some applications you might need to disable streaming of individual tokens for a given model. This is useful when:- Working with multi-agent systems to control which agents stream their output
- Mixing models that support streaming with those that do not
- Deploying to Lang Smith and wanting to prevent certain model outputs from being streamed to the client
streaming=False
when initializing the model.
Not all chat model integrations support the
streaming
parameter. If your model doesn't support it, use disable_streaming=True
instead. This parameter is available on all chat models via the base class.v2 streaming format
Requires Lang Graph >= 1.1.
version="v2"
to stream ()
or astream ()
to get a unified output format. Every chunk is a Stream Part
dict with type, and data
keys — the same shape regardless of stream mode or number of modes:
invoke ()
— it returns a Graph Output
object with.value
and.interrupts
attributes, cleanly separating state from interrupt metadata:
Related
- Frontend streaming—Build React UIs with
use Stream
for real-time agent interactions - Streaming with chat models—Stream tokens directly from a chat model without using an agent or graph
- Reasoning with chat models—Configure and access reasoning output from chat models
- Standard content blocks—Understand the normalized content block format used for reasoning, text, and other content types
- Streaming with human-in-the-loop—Stream agent progress while handling interrupts for human review
- Lang Graph streaming—Advanced streaming options including
values, debug
modes, and subgraph streaming